So I can break down the responsibilities
as we did before, management,
engineering and people.
On the management side,
this is a lot of work you don't see.
I won't say paperwork is the nature of it,
but you do do paperwork.
Businesses run on paperwork,
we don't just make decisions.
You were just so in competition you need
update that you have to make sure they're
getting paid properly.
When you're hiring that's
that's a lot of paperwork.
You probably haven't thought
of writing a job description,
which Ryan's going to cover in engineering
management one or two tomorrow.
That's a lot of work to write
a good job description.
It takes time, that's paperwork.
Letting someone go, you've got to write
down why, you have to talk to HR,
you have to fill a lot of paperwork there.
There's a lot of business side of things
that a manager is responsible for
that most people never see.
And I'm just trying to shine
a light on some of that.
When it comes to expenses, someone fills
out expense reports, you buy something
new, unless you're filling out the expense
reports, someone's got to approve that.
I was gonna take a look.
One that I ran into recently that I
found not so fun vendor management.
If we're buying software,
I need to deal with a vendor.
I got to talk to their sales rep who's
trying to sell me something more trying to
get more into the company.
Like hey, there's some other people
that can talk to him like now.
Just me, am sorry.
But you have to keep them happy too cuz
you're buying technology from them.
I have to look over the contract,
I've got to talk to legal,
I have to sign that contract.
All this stuff that goes into, hey,
Jim, can we just buy Adobe Suite or
something like that or
some piece of software?
Sure, but someone has to put in all
the paperwork and business side of things.
That's the responsibility of the manager,
that's fine.
I don't know anybody that loves this part,
but it is necessary to have this done.
Engineering, you're responsible for
the charter of your team now.
What does your team do?
What don't they do?
You should probably have an answer to
that, someone's got to figure that out and
that's your job now.
The communications, and that includes
things that you probably don't think of.
If you use Slack, someone's got to
set up your team's Slack channels.
Someone's got to set up
the other Slack channels.
Someone has to maintain those,
that's usually the manager doing that.
When I joined the team, it was a frequent
question we got was, hey, Jem,
we're working on this project,
we're gonna ship it out.
Who needs to know this I was like,
that's a good question.
I should know that answer.
So I had to aggregate all of our
partners and teams together and
to create a distribution list.
And then I shared that with team and
I was like, hey, just if you have
any announcements to send it to the steel,
you don't have to worry about anymore.
But that's just the process I introduced,
but someone had to do that.
So I had to set up all this stuff.
When there aren't big changes, too.
It's your job to share it out and share
the joy and like yeah, way to go team.
That's all communications that you have to
do as you're responsible now as manager.
The long term strategy,
we've talked a bit about that.
Where are we headed?
Why are we headed there?
Are we making good progress?
Should we reevaluate that
progress halfway through?
That's your job.
Work proposition, what should we be doing?
What should we not be doing?
Something just came in,
should we address this immediately?
Is that a high priority?
A lot of that's your job too,
is it a piece here or
is it something we can wait till another,
another quarter.
Context setting,
my style of leadership is leader.
I like to be a leader who
builds up other leaders.
And that's the way I scale myself,
I scale the team.
It's worked pretty well.
We do a lot, so
we do a lot with not a lot of engineers.
But to do that,
a leader still needs context.
It doesn't matter what
level you're operating at.
Why, why are we doing things?
How I don't think about as much that's up
to the individual members of the team.
But the why is really important.
Humans wanna know why they're doing.
Intelligent people wanna know why
you can't just tell them what to do.
So, I do a lot of context settings and
something else you don't think about if
there's any sort of change management,
a reorg, maybe your company got a new CTO,
maybe my manager, the director has
let go or something like that.
Maybe they have let someone
else go on a different team.
I have to set a lot of context for
people and say like,
this is why things are happening.
Here's all this background information.
That's your responsibility, cuz manager or
software engineers generally don't know
all these things that you know,
and the challenging part of that.
If you have to filter it for them, you
can't just give him a firehose of like,
here's the latest trauma.
Let me tell you, they just fired that
person over there and here's why.
Guess what, you can't do that.
That's not helpful.
It's something, but you can't just
share everything with people.
You can't share everything with every
single person that sometimes people aren't
ready to handle that or you have to
change the way you communicate that.
So context setting is
a large part of the role, but
it takes work, it's not a one-to-one.
Managing your partners and
your stakeholders.
Who are people dependent on your team?
Who are you dependent on?
Do they know what your team is up to?
Are you going to need their help in
the next quarter, the next year?
Do they know that?
Are you gonna need to help them?
Does your team know that?
You have to manage all
these relationships too.
So relationship management is really
big part of engineering management.
And then there's project
management as well,
sometimes you had to step in a leader
project, plus it's really large.
You had to become good at leading
technology projects when you're not
the one coding, which is an entirely
different skill set than actually coding.
So, question?
>> This is a little related back to
the bridge between engineers and
engineering management, but isn't it our
job as engineering managers to motivate
engineers to care about the business?
>> Yeah,
I wouldn't say care about the business.
I don't know if I'd use that terminology.
You have to make it relevant to them.
I mean,
you could say care about the business,
but if you're a software engineer and
you're getting paid a salary and
the stock goes up,
the CEO comes in a meeting, you're like,
it's really important to get
the stock up to this, blah, blah.
As a software engineer you're
probably not gonna care that much.
So you have to make things relevant
to people in a way that makes sense.
Find out what they care about,
and then change the context so
they understand it and make it relevant.
But the carrying of the business,
sometimes you can do it,
sometimes you can't.
Not everybody works,
I'm privileged to work for
a company where it's pretty well loved,
we have a good product.
But sometimes you're working in,
I don't know, making accounting software.
I don't know, unless you're really
passionate about numbers, I'm probably not
gonna be able to make you passionate
about that particular side of business.
So, it's my job to find
the things that are important and
translate those to the team,yeah.
>> Wouldn't that actually be a red
flag if you're being asked as
an engineering manager to make
this stuff go up [LAUGH] ?,
>> Maybe a too far example,
>> Maybe, yeah.
Well, I find sometimes managers
complain to me that they're
being asked to do well
the charter of the team for
example is like a constant struggle
because delineation of responsibility
between teams is sometimes
a struggle between teams [LAUGH].
>> It is an aspect I did
not invest enough, but
now I do look back and
its really important to have a charter,
its one of those things you
are like this is silly,
when is it really reading this, but
I won't [INAUDIBLE] I believe
goona write one tomorrow.
Or in engineering management 102,
cuz they are important.
On the stock price thing,
it's happened to me before.
Maybe not the stock price per se, but
it's more we have a financial target as
a company to hit these gross margins
in order to improve our stock price or
do something.
And then, I have to take that and say,
like, how does that translate to me?
Usually that's for my director and
above who distil that down.
But still, that's context, I get that I
know where we're heading as a company.
Does my team care about that?
They don't, but how does that show up?
There's a variety of ways so
I won't go into all of them, but
yeah, that is a challenge.
Was there another question?
>> Yeah, it was a little related to maybe
working on something that isn't as fun or
exciting, but a person in the chat
mentioned that when I'm forced
to work on a project
that I don't agree with.
I frame it as a demo for how our team
can elevate our engineering rigor.
>> Yeah, I like that,
that's a good way of translating things.
It's a balance.
Sometimes you need to be direct with the
team, say like, here's what we got to do.
And sometimes you need to step back and
let the team figure that out.
Say like, what about this and
ask a series of leading questions to
get them to arrive at the answer.
And how you do that?
It really depends.
That's kind of the whole story of
management, it's like, it depends.
So I wish I had concrete,
this is what you do in this scenario, but
it's gonna vary a lot.
And the final responsibility
is people recruiting.
Something people struggle with,
a lot of new managers struggle with
hiring and recruiting, surprisingly.
For me, it's one of the more
enjoyable aspects, but I'm weird.
But recruiting is something you need
to get good at, talking to strangers,
explaining what your team does and why
this person should work for your team or
not quickly and
concisely takes a lot of skill.
The elevator pitch for your team.
It's trickier than it seems.
You're responsible for Team developments.
Are they growing as a team?
Are they picking up new skills and
technology or they're stagnating,
happy where they are.
Sometimes you need develop teams,
sometimes you leave me alone.
You got to figure that out.
Performance coaching we've talked
about during the manager interview.
Sometimes people just need
a nudge in the right direction.
Some people are slipping and
they don't know it.
Some people are doing consciously and
you have to figure out are they doing it?
Is it conscious or unconscious?
And figure out what to do next and
set expectations.
You're responsible for team health.
Like I said, I have a team of introverts,
so I have to work a little bit harder when
it comes to getting them to talk to
each other outside of technology,
talked about the personal lives,
but that's important.
At the end of that you're
working with other people.
So you need to get along with those
people whether you know it or not.
It's really important for
have good team cohesion.
And that's your responsibility now.
Any sort of conflict that arises
with partner, intra team that's your
responsibility too, you gotta solve
that there's no so and so's arguing so
and so these jerks I can't believe
they're doing that that's all
you man [LAUGH] that's your
responsibility now, you can avoid it.
Earlier, I think someone said conflict
avoidance is something to work on.
Yeah, you can't avoid conflicts anymore,
you have to run to them, and
put them out before they
become much larger.
And that's uncomfortable for
me too, I don't wanna deal with it,
I have my own problems.
And now people on my team
are creating new problems.
Like, why are you doing this to me?
See the gray hair in my beard already?
But it's something you have to do now,
it's your responsibility,
you can't offload that to anybody else.
And then onboarding, that's a one you
probably don't think of very often.
Is you hire someone new,
you're picking them now,
you got to get them up to speed and
get them productive.
How do you do that?
What does that look like?
Does that depend on the role,
the person, the place your team is at?
That's your responsibility now too.
There's probably a lot more
on the people's side, but
hopefully this is a good snapshot of
there's a lot of responsibilities you have
as an engineering manager.
How those play out, it's gonna vary
from person to person, team to team.
But in general these are all
things you have to think about and
it's your job now to care.